# iot-motion_capture



Project Description

In this project we uses the technology Internet of things. The IoT is used to connect devices embedded in various systems with the help of internet. When devices or objects can represent themselves digitally and they can be control from wherever you are in the world. The connectivity helps us to capture more data from many places, ensuring more ways of increasing efficiency, which improves safety and IoT security. IoT is a transformational force that helps to improve performance of companies through IoT analytics and IoT Security in order to deliver better results.
A motion sensor (or motion detector) is an electronic device that is designed to detect and measure movement. Motion sensors are used primarily in home and business security systems, but they can also be found in phones, paper towel dispensers, game consoles, and virtual reality systems. An active electronic motion detector contains an optical, microwave, or acoustic sensor, as well as a transmitter. However, a passive contains only a sensor and only senses a signature from the moving object via emission or reflection Motion detectors have found wide use in commercial applications. One common application is activating automatic door openers in businesses and public buildings. Motion sensors are also widely used in lieu of a true occupancy sensor in activating street lights or indoor will be able to view the email notifications from IFTTT regarding the motion detection and its exact date and time. lights in walkways, such as lobbies and staircases. In such smart lighting systems, energy is conserved by only powering the lights for the duration of a timer, after which the person has presumably left the area. A motion detector may be among the sensors of a burglar alarm that is used to alert the home owner or security service when it detects the motion of a possible intruder. Such a detector may also trigger a security camera to record the possible intrusion.

WORKING

PIR Sensor is short for passive infrared sensor, which applies for projects that need to detect human or particle movement in a certain range. It is also known as PIR (motion) sensor or IR sensor.

PIR sensor is a low-cost motion detector sensor. It is a passive motion sensor that means it can only detect something around it and it cannot transmit anything. Whenever there is a motion around the sensor, it will detect the heat of the human body and produces a high output logic  at the output of the sensor. Every object emits infrared rays when they are heated and on the same principle, the human body emits IR rays due to body heat. Hence, whenever the motion sensor detects the human body around it, its output becomes high. We can also adjust the sensitivity of this sensor by changing the variable resistors available on the sensor. One variable resistor is for sensitivity adjustment of distance and another variable resistor is for sensitivity adjustment of time that is the amount of time for which the output should be high.
In the above schematic, we can see that GPIO14 is connected with the anode pin of LED, and the cathode pin is connected with the common ground through the 220 ohm resistor.
The PIR Sensor which we are using in this tutorial consists of three pins. Two of them are power supply pins such as VCC and ground pins. We can power PIR motion sensor directly from the ESP32 3.3V power pin or Vin as shown in the above schematic diagram. The center pin is the output pin which provides an active high pulse whenever motion is detected. Otherwise, this pin remains active low. That means a rising edge occurs when a PIR sensor detects motion. Here we have connected the output pin of the sensor with GPIO13. All are the grounds are in common.

